---
title: "A deep domain adaptation framework with correlation alignment for EEG-based motor imagery classification"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/pub-1
date: 2023-09-01
venue: 'Computers in Biology and Medicine'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper1.pdf'
---
Abstract: It is impractical to collect sufficient and well-labeled EEG data in Brain-computer interface because of the time-consuming data acquisition and costly annotation. Conventional classification methods reusing EEG data from different subjects and time periods (across domains) significantly decrease the classification accuracy of motor imagery. In this paper, we propose a deep domain adaptation framework with correlation alignment (DDAF-CORAL) to solve the problem of distribution divergence for motor imagery classification across domains. Specifically, a two-stage framework is adopted to extract deep features for raw EEG data. The distribution divergence caused by subjected-related and time-related variations is further minimized by aligning the covariance of the source and target EEG feature distributions. Finally, the classification loss and adaptation loss are optimized simultaneously to achieve sufficient discriminative classification performance and low feature distribution divergence. Extensive experiments on three EEG datasets demonstrate that our proposed method can effectively reduce the distribution divergence between the source and target EEG data. The results show that our proposed method delivers outperformance (an average classification accuracy of 92.9% for withinsession, an average kappa value of 0.761 for cross-session, and an average classification accuracy of 83.3% for cross-subject) in two-class classification tasks compared to other state-of-the-art methods.
